James writes to [...]:

Peace be with you from Peace,
love from Love,
grace from Grace,
faith from Faith,
life from Holy Life!

Since you asked that I send you a secret book which was revealed to me and Peter by the Lord,
I could not turn you away or gainsay (?) you;
but I have written it in the Hebrew alphabet and sent it to you, and you alone.

But since you are a minister of the salvation of the saints,
endeavor earnestly and take care not to rehearse this text to many -
this that the Savior did not wish to tell to all of us, his twelve disciples.

But blessed will they be who will be saved through the faith of this discourse.

I also sent you, ten months ago, another secret book which the Savior had revealed to me.

Under the circumstances, however, regard that one as revealed to me, James;
but this one ... [untranslatable fragments] ...

The twelve disciples were all sitting together and recalling what the Savior had said to each one of them,
whether in secret or openly, and putting it in books -

But I was writing that which was in my book - lo, the Savior appeared,
after departing from us while we gazed after him.

And five hundred and fifty days since he had risen from the dead,
we said to him, "Have you departed and removed yourself from us?"

But Jesus said, "No, but I shall go to the place from whence I came. If you wish to come with me, come!"

They all answered and said, "If you bid us, we come."

He said, "Verily I say unto you, no one will ever enter the kingdom of heaven at my bidding,
but (only) because you yourselves are full.

Leave James and Peter to me, that I may fill them."

And having called these two, he drew them aside and bade the rest occupy themselves with that which they were about.

The Savior said, "You have received mercy ... ( lines missing)
Do you not, then, desire to be filled?

And your heart is drunken; do you not, then, desire to be sober?

Therefore, be ashamed!

Henceforth, waking or sleeping, remember that you have seen the Son of Man,
and spoken with him in person, and listened to him in person.

Woe to those who have seen the Son of Man;
blessed will they be who have not seen the man,
and they who have not consorted with him,
and they who have not spoken with him,
and they who have not listened to anything from him;
yours is life!

Know, then, that he healed you when you were ill, that you might reign.

Woe to those who have found relief from their illness, for they will relapse into illness.

Blessed are they who have not been ill,
and have known relief before falling ill;
yours is the kingdom of God.
...